Add governance (#4261)
tikv/tikv: GOVERNANCE.md

# Process for becoming a maintainer

> 

Reviewer: Add a line like "Depending on the status of your current organization, the process for becoming a maintainer may differ as described below: "

## Your organization is not yet a maintainer

* Express interest to the senior maintainers that your organization is interested in becoming a
  maintainer. Becoming a maintainer generally means that you are going to be spending substantial

>   time (>25%) on Envoy for the foreseeable future. You should have domain expertise and be extremely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  time (>25%) on Envoy for the foreseeable future. You are expected to have domain expertise and be extremely
```

  proficient in C++. Ultimately your goal is to become a senior maintainer that will represent your
  organization.
* We will expect you to start contributing increasingly complicated PRs, under the guidance
  of the existing senior maintainers.
* We may ask you to do some PRs from our backlog.
* As you gain experience with the code base and our standards, we will ask you to do code reviews
  for incoming PRs (i.e., all maintainers are expected to shoulder a proportional share of
  community reviews).
* After a period of approximately 2-3 months of working together and making sure we see eye to eye,
  the existing senior maintainers will confer and decide whether to grant maintainer status or not.

>   We make no guarantees on the length of time this will take, but 2-3 months is the approximate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We make no guarantees on the length of time this will take, but 2-3 months is an approximate
```

  goal.

> ## Your organization is currently a maintainer

Reviewer: Consider using an ordered list for this section?

> * First decide whether your organization really needs more people with maintainer access. Valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* First, decide whether your organization really needs more people with the maintainer access. 
```

Author: Disagree with this one since there is more than a singular "maintainer"

  reasons are "blast radius", a large organization that is working on multiple unrelated projects,
  etc.
* Contact a senior maintainer for your organization and express interest.
* Start doing PRs and code reviews under the guidance of your senior maintainer.

> * After a period of 1-2 months the existing senior maintainers will discuss granting "standard"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After a period of 1-2 months, the existing senior maintainers will discuss granting "standard"
```

  maintainer access.

> * "Standard" maintainer access can be upgraded to "senior" maintainer access after another 1-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The "standard" maintainer access can be upgraded to the "senior" maintainer access after another 1-2
```

Author: I disagree with this one, since there are many people with maintainer access, not a singular "the"

>   months of work and another conference of the existing senior committers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  months of work and another conference among the existing senior maintainers.
```

## Maintainer responsibilities

* Monitor email aliases.
* Monitor Slack (delayed response is perfectly acceptable).
* Triage GitHub issues and perform pull request reviews for other maintainers and the community.
* During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/labels)

>   to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for future issue follow up. Which labels to apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for follow-up of future issues. Which labels to apply
```

  is somewhat subjective so just use your best judgment. A few of the most important labels that are
  not self explanatory are:
  * **beginner**: Mark any issue that can reasonably be accomplished by a new contributor with
    this label.
  * **help wanted**: Unless it is immediately obvious that someone is going to work on an issue (and
    if so assign it), mark it help wanted.
  * **question**: If it's unclear if an issue is immediately actionable, mark it with the
    question label. Questions are easy to search for and close out at a later time. Questions
    can be promoted to other issue types once it's clear they are actionable (at which point the
    question label should be removed).

> * Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or closing them.

Reviewer: "or closing them" is not clear to me.

Author: Closing (the PR)

Reviewer: As in "closing the PR if they are not moving at the right pace?"

Author: 👍

Reviewer: Then the sentence should be “Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace, or close them if they are not."

* Participate when called upon in the security release process. Note
  that although this should be a rare occurrence, if a serious vulnerability is found, the process

>   may take up to several full days of work to implement. This reality should be taken into account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  may take up to several full days of work to implement. This possibility should be taken into account
```

>   when discussing time commitment obligations with employers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when discussing time commitment with employers.
```

> * In general continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of ones time working on TiKV (~1.25

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In general,  be constantly willing to spend at least 25% of your time working on TiKV (~1.25
```

  business days per week).

> * We currently maintain an "on-call" rotation within the maintainers. Each on-call is 1 week.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We currently maintain an "on-call" rotation within the maintainers. Each on-call is 1 week long.
```

> * We currently maintain an "on-call" rotation within the maintainers. Each on-call is 1 week.

Reviewer: Consider removing these? I think the lines before are sufficient to indicate the same meaning

  Although all maintainers are welcome to perform all of the above tasks, it is the on-call
  maintainer's responsibility to triage incoming issues/questions and marshal ongoing work
  forward. To reiterate, it is *not* the responsibility of the on-call maintainer to answer all
  questions and do all reviews, but it is their responsibility to make sure that everything is
  being actively covered by someone.

> ## Cutting a release

Reviewer: Consider using an ordered list for this section?

> * We do releases approximately every 6 weeks.

Reviewer: Move this out of the list. And add:
"We do releases approximately every 6 weeks. Here is how a regular release goes out:"

> * Decide on the somewhat arbitrary time that a release will occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Decide on the somewhat arbitrary time when a release will occur.
```

* Take a look at open issues tagged with the current release, by
  [searching](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues) for

>   "is:open is:issue milestone:[current milestone]" and either hold off until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "is:open is:issue milestone:[current milestone]".  Make your call on holding them off until
```

  start with "v" and be followed by the version number. E.g., "v1.6.0". **This must match the
  [VERSION](VERSION).**
* Open a PR on the [Website repo](https://github.com/tikv/website) to reflect the new release.
* If possible post on Twitter (or, ask @hoverbear to do it).
* Do a new PR to update [Cargo.toml](Cargo.toml) to the next development release. E.g., "1.7.0-dev".

## When does a maintainer lose maintainer status

If a maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the maintainer duties listed above, they
should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of
the maintainers per the voting process below.

# Conflict resolution and voting

In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out
between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, the maintainers can be
called in to decide an issue. If the maintainers themselves cannot decide an issue, the issue will
be resolved by voting. The voting process is a simple majority in which each senior maintainer
receives two votes and each normal maintainer receives one vote.

> # Adding new projects to the tikv GitHub organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Adding new projects to the TiKV GitHub organization
```

New projects will be added to the envoyproxy organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the

> existing projects in the organization. Once sufficient discussion has taken place (~3-5 business

Reviewer: ```suggestion
existing projects in the organization. Once sufficient discussions have taken place (normally 3-5 business
```

> days but depending on the volume of conversation), the maintainers of *the project where the issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
days but may be longer depending on the volume of conversations), the maintainers of *the project where the issue
```

was opened* (since different projects in the organization may have different maintainers) will

> decide whether the new project should be added. See the section above on voting if the maintainers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decide whether the new project should be added. See [Conflict resolution and voting](#conflict-resolution-and-voting) if the maintainers
```

# Process for becoming a maintainer

Depending on the status of your current organization, the process for becoming a maintainer may differ as described below:

## Your organization is not yet a maintainer

1. Express interest to the senior maintainers that your organization is interested in becoming a
  maintainer. Becoming a maintainer generally means that you are going to be spending substantial

>   time (>25%) on Envoy for the foreseeable future. You are expected to have domain expertise and be extremely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  time (>25%) on Envoy for a foreseeable future. You are expected to have domain expertise and be extremely
```

Author: "For the forseeable future" is a turn of phrase https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/in/for%20the%20foreseeable%20future

> # Process for becoming a maintainer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Process for becoming a maintainer
```

Reviewer: This does not look like a first level header to me. Maybe we can have "TiKV Project Governance" as the first level header, and add a general description like "The TiKV project is governed by its collaborators, specifically the senior maintainers, who are responsible for high-level guidance of the project."

Author: I agree, great idea. :)

Reviewer: @Hoverbear I see you resolved this conversation but it seems you haven't made the change we mentioned above, which you also agreed. :)

Depending on the status of your current organization, the process for becoming a maintainer may differ as described below:

## Your organization is not yet a maintainer

1. Express interest to the senior maintainers that your organization is interested in becoming a
  maintainer. Becoming a maintainer generally means that you are going to be spending substantial
  time (>25%) on TiKV for the foreseeable future. You are expected to have domain expertise and be extremely

>   proficient in C++. Ultimately your goal is to become a senior maintainer that will represent your

Reviewer 2: Just C++? 🙃

Author: Muahahaha

  for incoming PRs (i.e., all maintainers are expected to shoulder a proportional share of
  community reviews).
5. After a period of approximately 2-3 months of working together and making sure we see eye to eye,
  the existing senior maintainers will confer and decide whether to grant maintainer status or not.
  We make no guarantees on the length of time this will take, but 2-3 months is an approximate
  goal.

## Your organization is currently a maintainer

1. First decide whether your organization really needs more people with maintainer access. Valid
  reasons are "blast radius", a large organization that is working on multiple unrelated projects,
  etc.
2. Contact a senior maintainer for your organization and express interest.
3. Start doing PRs and code reviews under the guidance of your senior maintainer.
4. After a period of 1-2 months, the existing senior maintainers will discuss granting a "standard"
  maintainer access.
5. "Standard" maintainer access can be upgraded to "senior" maintainer access after another 1-2
  months of work and another conference among the existing senior maintainers.

## Maintainer responsibilities

* Monitor email aliases.

> * Monitor Slack (delayed response is perfectly acceptable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monitor Slack (a delayed response is perfectly acceptable).
```

* Triage GitHub issues and perform pull request reviews for other maintainers and the community.
* During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/labels)
  to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for follow-up of future issues. Which labels to apply
  is somewhat subjective so just use your best judgment. A few of the most important labels that are
  not self explanatory are:
  * **beginner**: Mark any issue that can reasonably be accomplished by a new contributor with
    this label.
  * **help wanted**: Unless it is immediately obvious that someone is going to work on an issue (and
    if so assign it), mark it help wanted.
  * **question**: If it's unclear if an issue is immediately actionable, mark it with the
    question label. Questions are easy to search for and close out at a later time. Questions
    can be promoted to other issue types once it's clear they are actionable (at which point the
    question label should be removed).

> * Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or closing them if they are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace, or close them if they are not
```

  [VERSION](VERSION).**
6. Open a PR on the [Website repo](https://github.com/tikv/website) to reflect the new release.
7. If possible post on Twitter (or, ask @hoverbear to do it).
8. Do a new PR to update [Cargo.toml](Cargo.toml) to the next development release. E.g., "1.7.0-dev".

## When does a maintainer lose maintainer status

If a maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the maintainer duties listed above, they
should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of
the maintainers per the voting process below.

# Conflict resolution and voting

In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out
between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, the maintainers can be
called in to decide an issue. If the maintainers themselves cannot decide an issue, the issue will
be resolved by voting. The voting process is a simple majority in which each senior maintainer
receives two votes and each normal maintainer receives one vote.

# Adding new projects to the TiKV GitHub organization

> New projects will be added to the tikv organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New projects will be added to the TiKV organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the
```
